# Data Generator

The Data Generator is set of python scripts and text files I created for work to help my team and I with creating Axure prototypes. 

## Why the Data Generator? 
One of the more time consuming activities when prototyping is the creation of dummy data. It's easy enough if you've only got 10 records to create requiring names, a couple ID fields, VINs and license plate numbers. However, after 10 records, or the inclusion of additional fields like addresses, divisions, emails, and phone numbers, or creating prototypes for multi-national fleets, the creation of dummy data quickly gets cumbersome. Therefore, to save myself and my team time and heartache, I created a tool that would generate the most common data for them. The data points generated by Data Generator include:

- Vehicle ID
- Make
- Model
- Year
- VIN
- License Plate
- Fleet ID
- Division ID
- First Name
- Last Name
- Email Address
- Phone Number
- Driver ID
- Street Address
- City
- State and/or Province
- Zipcode and/or Postal Code


## How Does Data Generator Work?
It's pretty simple! There are two python scripts supported by 6 text files in a folder called Names.
- data_generator.py is the main script that generates a CSV file containing the data points listed above.
- random_names.py generates random names: first and last names, street names, and combinations of major cities with their state or province.
- Names/can_provinces.txt contains combinations of Provinces, major cities, and postal codes.
- Names/first_name.txt contains 2000 first names (1000 for each gender).
- Names/last_name.txt contains 1000 last names common in the US and Canada, the two main countries the products I work on are geared towards.
- Names/street_names.txt contains over 30 common North American street names.
- Names/us_states.txt contains combinations of states, major cities, and zipcodes.
- Names/vehicles.txt contains over a 100 combinations of popular auto manufacturers and their car and truck models.

There are only 3 pieces of information needed as user input for Data Generator:
1. The number of vehicles.
2. Whether there needs to be multiple Fleet IDs.
3. What country the fleet is in: US, Canada, or both.

## Team-Specific Features
Since my team is unfamiliar with python, the version of this tool I created for work was compiled into an executable using Pyinstaller and NSIS. Pyinstaller creates an executable that works in conjunction with any scripts or files you specify. For Data Generator, it is based on data_generator.py, as that is the main script. NSIS allows you to create a single package of files that can then be used by others without the need for having python or any IDE installed. The final version for my team runs on the CLI, takes the user input specified above, and generates a CSV file. 
